Introduction Section:

We are currently in the midst of one of the largest global pandemics ever and at the same time the availability of data is higher than ever. So, in this project I will examine
the relationship between distance to nearest hospital and Coronavirus death rate in New York City. Given the current climate in which the number of Covid-19 cases continue to
increase I believe this question will give us insight into where we will see cases increase and how we can be better prepared for a future outbreak. I believe we will see a rise
in death rates in those neighborhoods that are further from a hospital and if this is the case the solution may be to build more hospitals even if they are smaller clinic-type 
locations. By visualizing the relationship through a chloropeth map and clustering groups by income as well we will get a thorough overview of some of the factors leading to Covid-19
deaths.

Data:

To answer this research question I will be using foursquare API data to get data on neighborhoods similar to that used in Segmenting and Clustering lab from week 3. 
Then I will merge this with data from nychealth that provides the number of cases and deaths sorted by neighborhood. 
After doing this I will calculate the distance to the nearest hospital for each neighborhood by using foursquare API data and measure the relationship between the death rate and distance to nearest hospital.
The dataset can be found at this link: https://github.com/nychealth/coronavirus-data/blob/master/data-by-modzcta.csv

Methodology:

During the developmental stages of the code I decided to visualize the data using a variety of choropleth maps. In order to do so I cleaned data from the nychealth database
and used a geojson file sorted by ZCTA to create the polygons on the map. Then exploring the data further it became clear that the case rate, death rate, and testing statistics
would be most appropriate for comparison across regions. I then used seaborn regression plots to display relationships and determine the strenghts of many of the relationships.
In the future I could use machine learning to cluster these neighborhoods by some of the covid statistics along with distance to hospitals.

Results:

The results of the study show that there does seem to be a strong relationship between distance and case rate but the relationship with death rate is not as strong. I found this 
to be surprising as I hypothesized that a higher distance would lead to a larger death rate since it may make it more difficult to get the requisite care. In addition, we say that
testing per capita was nearly the same across all neighborhoods which confirms the efforts New York City has made to test a large number of people and set up many centers outside
of just hospitals.

Discussion:

Based on the results I would recommend to New York City that they focus more attention on building health care facilities in Brooklyn because the research showed that there aren't as
many hospitals in the area and as a result it has the highest death rate amongst the boroughs. At the same time we can conclude that the city does not need to over build hospitals
in the area as a result of Covid-19 because the results showed that the relationship in death rate and hospital distance isn't very strong. Clustering of neighborhoods may show us 
more in regards to what characteritics high death rate neighborhoods have.

Conculsion:

While we weren't able to make a large sweeping conclusion on the state of health care in New York City we were able to single out neighborhoods with high case and death rates
using choropleth maps. Taking a closer look at these neighborhoods allowed us to see that many of these neighborhoods did not contain a hospital but in the larger view the
relationship between hospital distance and death rates is not significant. In the future I hope to continue working on this project and incoproating more machine learning in 
the form of k-means clustering. 
